All
right. Hey folks. In this video, we're
going to do something a little different
by peeling back the covers on behavioral
interview questions. You might have seen
a list of common questions or gone
through interviews before and thought to
yourself like, "What do they really want
me to talk about?" or "How is this being
evaluated?" In this video, we're going
to go deep to try to walk you through
what interviewers are thinking, what
they're writing down in their
evaluations, potholes to avoid, and tips
for how you can choose from your
experience and present it. Just by way
of introduction, I'm Stefan. I'm one of
the co-founders of Hello Interview. I
was a senior manager at Meta and a bar
raiser at Amazon, and I've conducted
north of 2,000 interviews. I've talked
to a lot of candidates. For this
session, I brought an expert, my friend
Austin, who you might recognize from a
previous discussion that we had on the
channel. Austin led teams across Meta,
including the recruiting products team,
and was hiring committee chair. He's
also an author. I've heard some rumbling
about a book on the horizon. Did you
want to give us a quick plug, Austin?
>> Oh, yeah. Thanks, Devin. It's uh awesome
to be here. Like really fun to talk
about behavioral interviews. And yes, I
have been working on a book. It's called
Mastering Behavioral Interviews for
almost almost two years now, and it is
really close to being ready. I even have
a pre-print right here. I'm really
excited about it. There's not a lot of
behavioral interview content available
on the internet. And so I really wanted
to make something that was awesome for
people who want to work at tech
companies. Uh most of the stuff out
there is just use the STAR method.
Doesn't go very much beyond that. So in
this book, I'm sharing insights on what
companies are looking for, step-by-step
guide on how to prepare, and some
advanced storytelling techniques for
senior folks. So if people want to learn
more about it, they can check out uh my
Substack newsletter.
>> Perfect. And I've actually gotten to
read a little bit of this preprint. It
is good stuff. So definitely check out
Austin's newsletter. I'll include it uh
down in the comments. Also, if you're
looking for more detailed information
about how questions are evaluated, we
actually maintain a bank of community
reported questions on the Hello
Interview website. And on th those
pages, we have breakdowns, peer answers,
editorials. Definitely worth checking
out. I'll include a link as well. I want
to start with a celebrity question that
I see asked in almost every interview.
Tell me about a conflict you had with a
co-orker. How did you resolve it? And
this question, we've seen it reported at
Meta, Amazon, Apple, Data Dog. Austin,
what are interviewers trying to learn
from this question?
>> Yeah, classic question. I think this is
this is definitely one of the three most
common questions that I prepare my my my
coaching clients for, and you're
definitely going to receive this
question. Think in tech company culture,
we believe that disagreement is this
path to better outcomes. And we believe
that for a really long time. And that's
why companies care about this question,
right? They want to assess your ability
to embrace instead of avoid conflict.
They want to to see whether you're going
to make the team, the product, the
people better at their at their company
when those disagreements come up. And
they're really assessing a number of
very specific skills with this kind of
question. So first, they're assessing,
of course, conflict resolution skills.
Can you navigate a conflict with
empathy? Can you solve problems looking
for win-win solutions? Can you focus on
business outcomes while you are having
this interpersonal conflict? They're
also, of course, assessing communication
skills. So, how do you talk to to
co-workers in different circumstances
and situations? Do you use messaging? Do
you use meetings? Do you use in-person
conversations? And then they're also
getting some assessment of your level.
So, what level you're operating at
inside of a company? There's some data
out there that indicates that this is a
question which is really critical for
assessing whether someone is at a
certain level or not and it's based on
the scope of those conflicts that
they're engaged in.
>> Yeah. Then I I talk with a bunch of uh
candidates and they tell me, you know, I
haven't gotten in a big argument with
someone. I I don't get into conflicts.
What would you say to those people? What
would you suggest to them in terms of
how they can choose from the stories
that exist in their careers? I I hear
this one a lot in in in coaching
experiences, coaching sessions is they
think that the the interviewer is asking
them about whether or not they are
someone who starts conflicts. And of
course, nobody wants to be the person
who starts conflicts, right? And so
everyone begins with this, well, I don't
really have conflicts or d. But that's
not what the person is looking for. We
all have quote unquote conflicts. And
we're not always talking about, you
know, knockdown, drag out, emotional
fights, yelling, screaming. That's not
that can that could be a story that that
goes with this question, but that's not
really what what the person is meaning.
They just mean when are there
disagreements between uh you and someone
else? And this happens all the time.
Disagreements in terms of um you know
how we should prioritize work, how we
should implement um different technical
features, you know, what how we should
run the team, all those things are
really common conflicts. So when you're
going about choosing a conflict or
thinking about conflicts from your past,
you want to pick um ones that fit three
different dimensions. So, one of them is
high stakes. I think if you're having a
conflict over whether or not to use uh
spaces or tabs, this is probably not
like a great conflict to to highlight
unless you're a very junior person. So,
the outcome needs to matter to the
business or to the project. That's
number one. Number two is it needs to
involve you deeply. So, if you were just
a peripheral person in this conflict, if
you were just uh in the room while the
conflict is happening, but you weren't
central to its uh resolution, then
that's probably not a great story to
tell. And I think especially if you are
new to behavioral interviews, you want
to choose an an example where you were
right. Uh you can tell stories about
when you were wrong. I think that that
that has some value. U we could maybe
talk about that later, but I think it's
much harder to do that uh as a as a
especially if you're just learning how
to do behavioral interviews. So choose
one that where you were right.
>> I like the involvement that you're
calling out here, too, because it seems
like some candidates will go the
opposite direction. instead of choosing
something in in uh consequential, they
will choose a a grand story about
something that happened in their
organization, but it was clear that they
were mostly an audience that they
weren't actually the ones who were were
helping to resolve this conflict or or
move things forward.
>> I think that gets us to this question
about um leveling and what what if you
were a certain level, what kinds of
conflicts should you choose, right? And
um I think that if you're a more junior
or a mid-level person, often times this
is conflicts between you and someone
else like a peer, right? And often times
you may have needed to seek help when
you were resolving this conflict. If
you're more senior, say you're a senior
engineer like level five or a level six
staff engineer, then oftentimes those
conflicts are between uh you and and
someone who's not an engineer, maybe not
on the team, maybe a cross functional
peer like a product manager or maybe
even someone who is off off the team,
right? Another team that you're you're
engaging with, right? And oftentimes
this kind of conflict resolution
involves more than just talking about
things, but it involves some kind of
assessing gathering data and evaluating
it or building a proof of concept,
something like that. And then if you're
a, you know, a staff level person or a
principal engineer or a manager, then
often times these conflicts are
organizational in nature. So they drive
there's some kind of systemic challenge
which exists in the in the organization
that you're a part of. And often times
that resolution involves uh you or
someone else coming to the table with
some kind of solution which which
prevents those future conflicts from
arising.
>> Now I think a lot of candidates really
struggle with their time management.
Either they give a short, you know,
10-second response or they're spending
30 minutes giving the kind of grand
vision here uh without necessarily
giving additional signal to the
interviewer. Do you have any suggestions
for candidates on how they ought to
spend their time uh in coming up with
the response and presenting what their
experience was?
>> Yeah. So, when you're giving a response
for a behavioral interview question,
really what the person is assessing is
those repeatable actions that you are
telling the interviewer that you did.
Those are the things that they're you're
going to be able to take with you when
you join that company. So if you
gathered data, if you went and talked to
the person, if you were empathetic to
their to their their position, those are
the kinds of actions that they're
looking for. So the the the action part
often times we talk about either star,
format, situation, task, action, result,
or Carl, context, action, result,
learnings, no matter what format you
want to use for telling these stories,
that action is right there in the
middle. And that's what everybody should
be spending most of their time on. And
then the other pieces that are around
that whether that's the situation or the
task or the context section whatever you
want to call it those pieces are there
so that that the interviewer can
understand what actions that you took
and why those were the right actions and
then the results and learnings pieces
are there to showcase uh the level and
showcase the impact of what you're doing
and also give a little bit of
self-reflection. So you should spend
most of your time, maybe think about it
as 60% of your time on the actions that
um that that you took during this
conflict and maybe spend just a little
bit of time on the context, maybe 10% of
your time. For this particular question,
it's uh the result part is is is needs
to be kind of deeper than maybe the
result part for other behavioral
interview questions. Often times the
result of some projectoriented question
is well, we shipped the project and then
this was the business result and this is
what happened. But here you have the
result of the conflict itself which is
um you know what happened on the the
architectural choice or process choice
or whatever the the conflict was about.
And then you also have some relationship
state. So what happened between you and
this person. So if you if you resolve
the conflict and the business moves
forward but the person never wants to
work with you again then that's not
really great conflict resolution skills.
So you need to spend a little bit more
time maybe 20% of your time on on uh the
results side. And then ideally I love to
have responses which come with some kind
of learning, some sort of reflection
about what you learned in the
experience, what you would do
differently or what you did in the
future. And I think that that uh that's
a great another like 10% of your time,
just a little bit of time at the end.
>> It seems like there's a ton of actions
that you can kind of cover and you know
there are all sorts of details that we
can get into and fortunately you're
spending the majority of your time here.
Is there kind of a checklist that you
have in mind for things that people
ought to make sure that they cover uh in
giving a great response to a question
like this?
>> Yeah, definitely. I think when I'm
listening to one of these responses and
assessing you as a candidate, I want to
see that you you sought to understand
first or you wanted to understand what
the other person's perspective is. I
think if you rush rush forward with some
sort of solution, then I think that that
really loses out an opportunity to build
connection and and get to the best
solution at the end. So seek to
understand first and then there's some
sort of sign of empathy. So I think
sometimes even in in in emotionally
charged situations or stories that had
some sort of negative impact on you, you
still need to be able to express and
acknowledge the constraints that the
other person was under maybe their
motivations for why they believe
whatever they believed. So showing that
kind of empathy is important. I want
that in my co-workers. So I want that in
in the person that I'm interviewing. And
then ideally um there's some sort of
objective way to resolve this conflict.
So if it's about some architectural
choice, maybe we can build a proof of
concept. If it's about how to prioritize
something, then maybe we'll go and
gather some user research or or do some
data analysis. So whenever we use data
and evidence to make a make decisions, I
think that's a really strong signal to
send the interviewer about yourself. And
um there's a couple of other things. So
I think one of them is often times when
we're having these conflicts, we are
having to communicate with with with
different people, maybe with the person
itself, maybe with our manager, maybe
with other people on the team. And then
the way that you communicate. So the
channel even. So I uh whether it's a
Slack meeting or whether it's a
one-on-one meeting or whether you went
to see them in person. So I think often
times these conflicts sometimes they
start maybe they start in a written
format like on a PR or something and
then they need to move towards a a a
more you know higher bandwidth
experience where it's face to face. So
seeing how the candidate uh chose the
right communication channel and how they
leverage that channel to to move the
conflict forward is really something I
look for. Um and then I would say that
uh kind of towards the end if you're
looking at the resolution ideally the
candidate is coming up with some kind of
win-win situation for this for this
conflict. Maybe the maybe not everybody
gets all the things that they want but
um we make some compromise or the p
other person's needs are acknowledged
and and filled in some way as we exit
this conflict. And then like I mentioned
earlier it's really important that the
conflict preserves the relationship. So
I need to see um that you know at the
end of this actions I need to see that
you worked with this person well in the
future and that's what I mean by uh by
preserving the relationships.
>> There are some candidates when they hear
this question about conflict they
immediately go and think about some
place where they won and I think this
usually misses the the mark for for most
interviewers who are really trying to
understand how did you actually work
with co-workers who are on your team to
go and come up with a better outcome.
And so definitely avoid situations where
you're vilifying your your co-workers or
the other side in some sense. Actually,
the more rational they are and the more
sensible they are, the richer the story
is. So uh avoid situations where the
other side is doing something obviously
stupid uh because those actually don't
make you seem uh a as strong. You know,
these questions are behavioral
questions. Um some candidates will look
at the uh conflict stories and they'll
think about you know what results did I
get at the end which it's important
although Austin I think mentioned
earlier that maybe 10 to 20% of your
time ought to be spent there. Um you
know be careful about those situations
where your emphasis is primarily on some
technical achievement or business
outcome and less on the uh behaviors
between you and your colleagues. Austin,
are there any other kind of red flags or
or things that people ought to avoid in
this question?
>> Yeah, we mentioned a number of them. I
think being unempathetic like like we
talked about before is a big one. So, if
you're focusing on on winning that
argument, for sure. I think one that
that doesn't come up very often in
conversations I've had with folks uh
about they don't identify as a pitfall,
but is it is how does happen a lot,
which is that there's sometimes
candidates hide emotional content. So,
I'm listening to the story and it just
feels like something is missing. And
then I ask a little bit follow-ups and I
find out that, oh, actually there was a
a blowup. The other person maybe blew up
in a meeting or there was some really
emotionally charged experience that the
the candidate had to endure in order to
go through this this conflict. And they
think because we said like what we said
earlier, they think that they should
hide that in some maybe every every
interaction that they described should
somehow be professional. But if the
reality was that the the other other
parties in this conflict were not
professional, I do think that you should
mention that. You need to acknowledge
that in a professional way, you don't
disparage them or insult them. I think
that you need to again acknowledge what
they were going through and what their
motivations were. But if it was a a
difficult meeting and somebody even
yelling at you or cing cursing you out
or whatever, I think acknowledging that
in a professional way showcases that you
can persevere through those kinds of
challenges and come out the other side
with a uh with a successful resolution.
So don't hide emotional content if it's
there in the story. Often times these
conflicts
we wait too long, right? And we we uh
maybe the there's some disagreement, the
disagreement bubbles too long. Maybe
it's it goes it the conversation in the
meeting happens too long or the
conversation over the PR happens too
long before we sort of out of the normal
day-to-day work environment and say this
is a conflict. I need to to handle this
in a different way. And so if that was
the case and you need to frame that
carefully um because that is definitely
something that we're looking for that
that you uh proactively engage in
conflicts in a in a time reasonable
manner. And of course this is much more
important for for the more senior you
are. So if you're a very senior manager
or a very senior IC, you should be
seeing conflicts ahead of time and
engaging with them quickly.
>> Yeah. I mean I think that actually is a
great segue into the the next thing that
I wanted to touch on which is just you
know for the the higher levels sometimes
this question will be asked slightly
differently. So like one example I
usually ask for managers and staff and
senior staff engineers is can you share
an example of a conflict between
different teams or departments that you
helped uh to resolve. I'm curious from
your perspective as we start to walk up
this ladder in terms of leveling. Are
there different veillances and things
that uh candidates need to touch on?
What would you say are like the more
important things that start to show up
at those most senior levels?
>> So one thing is that that there is this
dynamic between organizations and you
can call it politics or you can that's
kind of a dirty word but you can call
whatever you want. There's some kind of
dynamics between different
organizations. So can you navigate
those? Can you understand what's
happening around you? why different
organizations might have this motivation
or that motivation and then be able to
navigate that successfully. So sometimes
there are these competing incentives
that teams may have and so can you
understand those incentives and then be
able to find that win-win situation. And
then the other thing is that in these
situations I'm looking for leaders not
just to come out the other side back
kind of like in the status quo like back
where we started uh like we resolved the
conflict but we're sort of fundamentally
in the same place. Maybe the conflict
may arise again, but I'm looking for
leaders to say, "Oh, this is a conflict
about, you know, uh, product ownership
and yes, we can resolve this one, but
what about the general boundaries
between the teams?" So, I want to I'm
looking for those systemic solutions
that leaders are able to bring in and
then prevent the next similar kind of
conflict from from happening. These
leadership stories, sometimes they
involve other people. So there's a you
and there the team of course but
sometimes they might involve your
management chain their management chain
or partners that you have or maybe even
folks on your team senior engineers
whatnot. So when you bring in the right
people at the right time you don't bring
them in too early wasting their time uh
quickly escalating just because you
can't resolve a conflict but you don't
also wait knowing that sometimes you do
need u management support in order to
resolve a conflict.
>> Yeah that's that's great and I love the
emphasis on incentives as well. I think
especially for leadership candidates,
there's this expectation from
interviewers that this person kind of
has x-ray vision for the org structure
in some sense and that they're able to
bring some insights to the table about
why this conflict arose and what does
that mean for how they changed their
response. Really strong candidates are
able to give you the backstory and say
here's why this team is acting this way.
It sounds a little unusual, but if you
understood that, then everything else
makes sense. And then here's what I did
as a response and it's going to differ
than what it would do in the average
situation where that didn't happen. Um,
so really love uh to see insights from
candidates and I think some of the
things that you called out there around
incentives are are really good for
leadership candidates. Do you still
recommend that same kind of 60% of time
spent on action or do you want to see a
different breakdown? These numbers are
sort of arbitrary. I would say that yes,
in general, of course, focus on actions.
That's what we're evaluating you on. But
I would also say that the context can
sometimes get a little bit longer for
like you said, I want to understand what
the motivation of the other team was.
And my my my warning there is that
managers and senior leaders tend to like
to talk. They that's what we do, right?
sometimes as managers and so um yes I
think that might need to expand some in
order for the listener to understand the
story but be very careful about how much
context is added there because one of
the things I'm assessing you on
especially as a leader is do you tell me
the important parts of the story because
that's what you're going to be doing
every day when you're talking to
engineers when you're talking to to
executives when you're talking to other
teams you're going to be uh
communicating and choosing the most
important words in an efficient way so I
need to see that efficient context
>> uh let's keep going and I want to change
um maybe about 45 degrees into a
question that's still related to
conflict but uh more about the
day-to-day work and this one is a bit of
a doozy. I I find this question is
somewhat culturally loaded but uh
usually you'll see a question like what
was a situation where you didn't agree
with your manager or your superior's
decision and somewhat implicit in the
question is like all right well how did
you go ahead and make that known I have
noticed that candidates on the east
coast in New York for instance maybe
they came from a finance background
where disagree with your manager is just
not something that people do oftenimes
struggle with questions like this and
frankly As an interviewer, I don't like
questions where there is a bunch of
cultural bias like that. They tend to
not give as good a signal, but it's
undoubtedly a question that gets asked
uh quite frequently. Um what are
companies getting at here? What what are
they hoping to gain from candidates when
asking this question and how does it
differ from some of the things that we
talked about already?
Yeah, I mean definitely these west, you
can call them west coast, Silicon
Valley, whatever tech company culture is
one where we think conflict creates
better outcomes. And so companies are
looking for whether or not you will
speak up when you see problems, right?
Saving the team and the company from
making bad decisions. And in those
cases, they want to see that you can do
that respectfully and professionally.
And I think that's one of the the the
filters that you're getting on this
question is if you're disagreeing with
the manager, needs to be done in a
respectful way. you as a as a as an
engineer you sometimes there are choices
when you need to push back against uh
you know against a manager against a
decision and sometimes when you need to
just say you know what this is I'm just
going to disagree and commit this is
just what the team's going to do and so
in that way I'm assessing your judgment
so you tell me the story if I felt like
uh you didn't properly justify the push
back and the kind of tax that you put on
the team by by bringing up this conflict
and pursuing it then I I that's
questions I question your judgment after
that you want your engineer ers to be
thought partners and not just executors,
right? So, not just sort of automatons
that take instructions. And so, we're
looking to see if you're that kind of
partner that can that can make the team
better.
>> How does that partnership come through?
Like, can you give some examples of
responses that candidates might give
that really exemplify a thought partner
versus an automaton?
>> Yeah, great question. Um I think that
there's situations where um maybe you're
making a technical choice, right? And
your manager has decided this is what
the organization is going to do and then
you want to take this this opportunity
to say, you know what, I think this this
technical choice has these drawbacks and
you have to to present that. There could
be uh like could be a hiring choice.
Maybe you're participating in a hiring
conversation and your manager really
wants to hire this person or really
doesn't want to hire this person and you
disagree and then you need to advocate
for that. Maybe there's a situation
where um there's uh some kind of process
question. So oftentimes engineers are in
places where managers calling a lot of
meetings and trying to get things done
in that kind of collaborative way and
maybe you as an engineer understand that
you need to to change the culture of the
team and be able to make it more shifted
towards execution. So there's like a lot
of opportunities that I think we have to
disagree with our our management chain.
>> A lot of those are signals of of trust
in some sense when hiring managers are
conducting behavioral interviews.
They're looking to see, okay, was this
person trusted by their leadership
chain. And if you're getting brought
into major decisions and and hiring
decisions and you're pushing back, that
usually means that, you know, they trust
your your judgment and they also think
that you're a good enough deliverer that
uh you need to have a seat at the table
for these things. I think this comes
back to something that Austin has harped
on before, which is that in some sense,
the way that you become good at
behavioral interviews is actually very
similar to what it takes to become good
at your job. And if you can think about
those things that build trust and that
enable you to access to to kind of
higher level projects, uh those are the
same things that you ideally are able to
highlight uh in some of your behavioral
responses. Now, you gave me some good
examples of things that you probably,
you know, might touch on or these are
some um examples of of ways that uh you
can you can touch on this positively.
What are those stories that you should
avoid? Like if somebody asks you this
question, are there particular things
that you shouldn't bring up?
>> No, there are some things. So, I think
if you're if you're say just airing
grievances, I think this is not a good
space for that. things like, "Hey, I got
a bad performance review and I had to
talk to my manager about it." Or, "I
didn't get promoted and I really wanted
to and I had to talk to my manager about
it." I think these are these are
questions these are the kinds of issues
that it's hard for the person to assess
whether who's making the right decision
um whether it was you or your manager.
And so, I think that that's probably not
a great um story. Remember, I talked
about times when you were right. I think
this is the the ideally the kinds of
conflicts that you're bringing up. I
think on the other side, it's um you
know, trivial disagreements. So, again,
I brought up code formatting style.
highlight that one as a as a it's funny,
but I think that people sometimes bring
it up as uh as a disagreement they have.
This show shows that you're just you're
petty, right, in the things that you you
bring up and that's not helpful. We
talked about avoiding um conflicts where
you were wrong or uh maybe you just
don't like the idea and then it's
difficult. Maybe the there's some kind
of product choice or something that your
manager is making or maybe they made a
choice about a tool or something and you
just don't like it. You don't have a lot
of objective reasoning. You just
personal preference. That's not a great
one. Right? Again, we can't assess your
judgment via that kind of story. And if
you had a very sort of emotional
conflict with your manager, then I think
that that could be a dangerous story to
tell because sometimes we can detect
that as as humans. We're listening to to
the story and we know, oh, there's a lot
of feelings that you have about the
story. So you need to be careful either
telling that story in in a in a sort of
medium tone kind of way and one way to
where you've processed those emotions or
maybe picking a different story where
that's not have as much of an emotional
impact on you.
>> Yeah. Don't pick up the the hot pan
especially because a lot of people end
up interviewing after they've had an
experience like that. And so maybe this
while fresh on your mind isn't
necessarily the right thing to bring up
in an interview in order to show off uh
kind of your capabilities throughout
your response. The interviewer is
writing stuff down in their notebook.
I'm curious from your perspective and
everybody's different. All interviewers
are going to write down different
things, but like what are the main
things that are being evaluated? What
would you say are like the rubric uh
that a interviewer might have for this
question? So I think it's very similar
to a general conflict question that we
talked about earlier, right? I think the
things that where it's different is and
we didn't talk about this yet, which is
that thinking can be one action, right?
So I think when when you are involved in
these deeper conflicts and where there
might be power dynamics involved or even
the cross team one like we talked about
last time, this thought process
revealing to me the thought process that
you went through so that I can assess
your judgment becomes an important
important part of the rubric. But
additionally, because there's this um
respectful piece or this filter which is
on top of it about disagreeing with your
manager, then I want to see that you
thought through timing. I want to see
through that you had careful thinking
about the channel that you used to to
bring up this conflict, right? The tone
that you you brought it up. Those are
all important things. And um typically I
I'm looking for whether you're well
prepared. So t I would not go and and
start a conflict with my manager,
address a conflict with my manager. If I
knew I was missing data for example, I
would go collect that data first and
then you know bring that to my to my
manager, right? And I think that um
acknowledging and being humble to
understand that uh the manager has
context that I don't have, right? That's
part of their role is to to to acquire
higher level context and then give it to
me. And so if I'm asking questions,
that's healthy, right? I want to see
that the person again is seeking to
understand the input. We talked about
that before. And um you know, I I want
to see I want to see if you were
successful. Again, if you if you have a
conflict with your manager, but you
aren't able to convince them, maybe
that's okay. Maybe maybe the manager was
right, but it isn't a great look for you
in the behavioral interview, it just it
makes it difficult for me to assess that
final piece, which is whether you're
able to convince someone uh of your
point of view. And I think that that
kind of we got them to change their mind
and commit to to your position. I really
want to see that in the in the actions.
>> Well, let's go ahead and move on from
conflict. We talked about this uh for
for a bit here. I want to go to another
category of questions that are really
common um in behavioral interviews and
they're usually pretty open-ended. Uh
one that's a classic right now and that
seems to be asked amongst a variety of
different companies is tell me about a
project that you're most proud of. I
think you know generally companies are
trying to get signal on like why are you
proud but also you know what what are
you what are you bringing to the table?
uh why do companies ask questions like
this and then how do these differ in
some sense from s like smaller questions
like these conflict stories that we've
been talking about earlier.
>> Yeah, so this is a much broader question
like you're talking about. It's really
getting a sense of what the uh what over
you your overall career has been like
and what you have have accomplished as
an engineer and so the the the
interviewer can collect a lot of signal
in a short period of time by listening
to these stories. So for sure they're
trying to get at your scope. So at what
level do you operate? What do you what
is it that you do? And to that scope
question, they're trying to to get at
where your ceiling is. So, what's the
largest scope, largest amount of time,
largest technical complexity, largest
organizational complexity that you've
operated at? And of course, if we're
talking about a project um that you're
really proud of, that means that you
probably did well on this project. So,
they're looking for this ownership, this
endto-end ownership. Those are really
big pieces. And I would say that while
you focused on this this question, this
is these kinds of questions about um
projects, they might uh be really really
common and there might be a bunch of
them that that fit with this kind of
format. So things like tell me about a a
big ambitious project, tell me about a
project that was very ambiguous, you
know, tell me about your favorite
project. So I think all of these things
are trying to get at the same the same
idea and they're getting at, you know,
the motivation uh for how why you wanted
to work on this project. they're getting
at uh your connection to to business
outcomes. So what are we what are we
doing here? We're hiring engineers to
use technology to deliver business
outcomes, right? And so when I when I
ask you about these these projects, I
want to see that you're connected to
that. Of course, problem solving skills,
right? We always encounter these
problems when we have projects that we
work on. And then I mentioned ambiguity,
and I think ambiguity is another big
signal area that that an interviewer is
listening to when they're hearing this
these kinds of uh uh responses. They
want to know are you able to take an
ambiguous problem, break it down into
smaller pieces and and execute it. The
communication even, right? So, of
course, inside of the story, there might
be times when you communicate it. That's
important. But I'm also by asking you
this big open-ended question, I'm
seeing, can you organize and tell me a
well structured story that's interesting
to listen to and that guides me as the
listener, as the interviewer towards
what's most important and what made you
successful. Do you even know like what
made you successful? Do you know what
good planning and good execution looks
like? And can you draw me a picture of
of how you did that? Uh, you know,
verbally and that is a big indicator of
your of your communication skills,
especially for senior candidates.
>> You you brought up a bunch of things
that end up being signals on the
evaluation side like how you can deal
with ambiguity, bias for action. This is
very common. I think Uber has a a
parallel to Amazon in this respect. And
sometimes these questions are hard to
just ask upfront, like tell me about a
time where you showed bias for action.
But on the other hand, they're usually
pretty apparent when you go tell longer
stories. And so those are chances for
you to kind of showcase the
characteristics that your interviewer
wants uh you to get after. So candidates
obviously need to be preparing major
projects that they can talk through in
their behavioral interviews. How would
you say they ought to go about selecting
a project? I often hear from from
candidates that I've talked to, oh, I
don't have anything webcale that I've
worked on or my projects are boring and
they're uninteresting. What would you
say to them as kind of a an algorithm
for them to work through in terms of
finding the project that's going to be
most relevant for this type of question?
>> Yeah, I definitely see this with
candidates who are going maybe from a
nonfang or a non-mango company. are
trying to to to get into a larger
webscale business and they feel insecure
about the kinds of projects they've had.
And so what I tell them is look, we are
hiring you to do honestly day-to-day
work like to to take a project from
beginning to end to identify some
business needs and build some things.
You've probably done that. You have
probably identified some business needs
and built some technology in order to
achieve those business needs. And so
don't be afraid to present the work that
you did as being representative of you
working through every stage of the
software development life cycle. And so
when you think about projects that you
have and you want to see which is the
right one, I think there's three
dimensions that you optimize for. So one
of them is impact. I think you want to
choose a project that had meaningful
business or or uh user outcomes. Another
one is scope. But this is sort of what
what we're talking about we're getting
at, right? How do we is is the is the
work at the scale that's appropriate for
your level. the amount of time, the
amount of technical complexity, the
amount of people that you worked with
and then again personal contribution,
right? Similar to how we talked about
conflict resolution, you need to be this
primary driver or somebody who is deeply
invested in this project and not sort of
peripheral to this project. Um now I
think the one other thing I would say is
uh sometimes there you're given some
sort of specific flavor to this question
like we talked about a time when project
was very ambiguous or or a time when you
had very you know large project with you
know with a customer external customer
or something like that right so if
you're given this sort of flavor then
ideally you're able to to put that
filter on top of your stories and then
pick one that fits that that model as
well. Okay. So I guess from the the
candidate perspective, go and think
about you know major projects that
you've been through and then maybe rank
them according to these three
dimensions. Impact, scope, personal
contribution and then try to find those
that are really highly ranked on each of
those dimensions. Is that a good
strategy?
>> I think it's a great strategy. Yeah.
Yeah. So if you're a level three, level
four, this is like a uh you know junior
engineer, software development one,
software developer two, that sort of
thing. Maybe you know zero to 3, four
years experience. Um then we're
expecting that kind of story to be at
the feature levels. It's like one to
four weeks worth of work. Maybe you
implemented it most of your of the way
yourself. There was probably some
guidance at some some experience you
some point along the way. So an example
might be that you I don't know built a
profile settings page, right? um from
design all the way to deployment,
something like that. And if you are a
senior engineer, like a level five
engineer, then usually that's operating
at the project level, maybe one month,
maybe three months, something like that.
Um there's probably some other people
involved, maybe one or two other
engineers that you're working with. And
really, I'm looking for your
contribution to be some sort of
leadership pieces. So that's technical
leadership and design, technical
implementation. You're doing the hardest
parts, right? Maybe you're coordinating
with other cross functional partners
like product management or design. Some
examples there is like um I don't know
you led some migration from a REST API
endpoints to a graph graphql API for
some mobile app or something like that.
That would be a a project that requires
some thinking and planning in advance
and maybe there's a number of people
involved to that one. And then as we
sort of keep going right so senior staff
level six I think I'm looking for a
significant project. It's like six
months maybe even 12 months. There could
be multiple work streams, right? Um
there could be some there's some goal
attached some large goal attached to
this uh this this effort almost you can
call it an effort in that sense that
have may have multiple project size
pieces underneath it that level fives
are working on. So here I'm looking for
you that you drove vision right that you
maybe created architecture that you
coordinated with a lot of people. Um so
maybe an example is something like um uh
architected and led some implementation
of real-time notification system or
something right then and you serving I
don't know millions of millions of users
something like that I think that would
be common for a level six and then level
seven that principle level um this is
some major initiative it's probably over
a year long uh these are things like
platform modernizations right and that
enable lots of teams to do something
maybe ship faster or improve their
developer experience or implement some
new technology, right? And so here I'm
looking for for strategic influence. You
you you set the direction for the whole
organization, not just for the team. And
that you unblocked those teams along the
way and made decisions and pivots as as
circumstances changed.
>> I'm definitely noting there's like a
time dimension to this that you know
that as you rank up that there's
expectation that you're working on
things for longer periods. I guess this
is a nice note for people who are job
hopping that, you know, you do want to
be able to maintain enough duration with
a company to be able to uh put on your
resume some of these accomplishments.
But I also I've talked with candidates
and they're in this dilemma. They
basically say, "Hey, my most recent
project I think very much meets the
scope and complexity, but I'm not done
with it yet. You know, we've still got
three months. It hasn't been delivered.
I worked on some stuff a year or two ago
at another company that I have
delivered, but it really really doesn't
map to the the scope that we were
talking about. How would you suggest for
engineers to try to think about the the
trade-offs here in choosing a story?
>> Well, trade-offs is the right call
because I I don't think there is a clear
answer to the story like always pick
this one, always pick that one. I think
that the trade-offs you mentioned are
recency and of course recency has an
impact on scope and that's what you're
calling out that older stories are often
lower scope stories. Um but then if it
is unfinished then that's going to
affect my assessment of your ability to
drive results. And so I would only
choose the more recent story if a uh my
older stories are significantly lower
scope uh than the one that I could
potentially tell now and b I have some
sort of progress and so ideally there's
some sort of like hey we have milestones
and I can show that I'm delivering
against the milestones or we're have
some sort of goal KPI metric that we're
working towards and I we are sort of
progressing along that path. So, I think
the story without any results for me to
assess whether or not you made the right
call or whether or not you're going, you
know, barking up the right tree or not,
I think that that's pretty hard. It's
pretty hard for me to listen unless
unless the the question is very specific
onto some kind of action that you want
to highlight in this more recent story.
If it's just asking me about a a project
that has no results and no measurable
impact, I think it's difficult to to
assess that kind of story as an
interviewer.
>> Yeah, I think it's a tough one. And
you're right. I don't think there is
like a firm answer. I think every time
someone's asked me this, I've gone,
well, let me think about this for a
minute. But I think you're right to
think about this more defensively. Like
a lot of interviewers as they're
assessing are going to be asking
themselves, well, did this pan out? Was
this actually a project where we showed
significant impact or maybe this is
going to go sideways when they actually
get to the fun part where they deliver
it to production. And as such, you need
to be prepared to kind of defend against
those issues. And so being able to speak
to the milestones, being able to uh
approach why you're confident this is
going to show the results that you have
um are going to be really critical if
you choose that story. But it's always
going to be a bit of a a play uh in
deciding between what's going to be most
effective. And it comes down to a point
by-point decision. Um you know,
somebody's old story might be better,
somebody's new story might be
inappropriate. It really just depends.
But I like the guidelines that you gave
here. So, we've got big meaty stories
that people are talking about. You know,
if you're at the staff level, you're
talking about something that took an
entire year. How should candidates think
about actually delivering and presenting
this? Because the worst case scenario is
they start off by telling me about the
nuances of C and all of the, you know,
various lambdas that they wrote before
they can actually get into the meat of
the story. What's the key to delivering
a big meaty project story?
>> Right. Right? So, we talked about
communication is being something that
I'm assessing when I'm listening to
these kinds of stories, right? I want to
know that you know what was important
inside of the inside of the work that
you did. And so, if if especially if
you're seeing your organization is going
to be really critical. You can still use
a STAR format or a Carl format in
general, but after your context and
situation setting time, it's ideally a
case where you can give me a table of
contents. And this is some list of the
most important parts of what I'm going
to be hearing when I'm listening to you
tell me this story. You know, something
like, hey, there was an investigation
and design phase where I had to gather a
lot of information from many teams,
right? There is a driving alignment with
stakeholders time where I had to work
with my VP to to to secure resources.
Then there were some like hard technical
choices that I had to dive in with the
team and solve on the networking side.
And then I had to think about I don't
know like some kind of careful roll out
that that we did. I had to to organize
the a careful roll out over time to
ensure safety. So I think something like
that gives me both a sense of what I'm
going to hear like what the different
parts are and also tells me what I'm
going to learn about you as the as the
candidate as you're talking through each
one of these these subp parts if you
will.
>> Yeah. I think from from your
perspective, are you trying to get from
the interviewer some signal? Like when
you give this table of contents, are you
trying to get them to tell in some sense
where they want you to spend your time
or is the goal just to organize your
presentation? Maybe it's both.
>> I'm not sure about tells. Maybe I'd be
interested to see what kind of tells you
provide as an as an interviewer after
after someone presents this kind of
list. Um, I was thinking more like it
helps to show that I'm organized. It
also helps me stay organized as I'm
telling the rest of the story. so
frequently in these long stories, you're
not just going to tell the story for 10
minutes, right? The person's going to be
interrupting you and asking you
questions and sort of taking you down
different rabbit holes. And honestly,
your job as a as a as the candidate is
to guide the interviewer towards what's
most important. So sometimes you need to
kind of like eject out of the out of the
rabbit hole and you say, "Okay, I think
I think we've talked about this, right?
We're feeling pretty good here. Like
maybe let's go and talk about that
number three thing, right? That hard
technical choices that we were going to
that we're going to make. Should we talk
about that?" Right? of guiding the
interviewer back to that uh that to that
list. And it it's not that that I
provided the list in advance that
enables me to do that. It's that I know
what the list is, right? So I I have I
know what's important for me to talk
about and I can guide the person back.
Um so the way I like to think about it
is this interviewer is sort of looking
at a really big mural on the wall of
your project, but they only have like a
small straw to look through and they
have to sort of pick at these different
parts. And so if you just leave them,
you know, let them look around the
picture, they have no idea what this
mural is. and it could take them a very
long time to ask the right specific
questions. But if you say, "Hey, like,
you know, there's a person over here and
there's a lion over there and [laughter]
then there's some aliens over here and
you're like, "Okay, cool." Like, I know
where the interesting parts to sort of
point my little my little vision and my
little view of this project and get some
more information about it as as time
goes on. It helps the interviewer know
what's coming in the future. But I'm
interested from you like what do you do
you get some tells from interviewers as
you present these table of contents? I
at least in in my limited experience on
the other side of the table as a
candidate sometimes interviewers will
say yeah you know I really want to hear
about your alignment and then the the
roll out. So uh you know they'll they'll
tell me places that I can elide parts of
the story. Uh they might also perk up
and you might see you know visibly that
they care more about specific areas. Um,
so that might help you, but it does kind
of come back to this problem that I
think you partially addressed here,
which is sometimes interviewers will
rabbit hole you like and and may not
actually be your fault on on going off
into too much detail. The interviewer
might have lost track of, you know,
what's important in the story or or what
you want to to get across. Do you have
any strategies or suggestions for like
leveling the conversation back or or
bringing it to those themes that you
want to get across
>> in any behavioral interview question? It
doesn't matter if it's a follow-up
question or otherwise. You want to go
through this three-step process. So the
first is decode to understand what the
question is really getting at. Then you
want to select the right response. Then
you want to deliver it, right? And so
this decode part of the of the follow-up
question is really important. So is this
just a clarifying question like oh like
tell me about what metrics you chose
here, right? And this clarifying
question, answer the question and you
sort of move on with the rest of the
rest of what you're discussing. But if
it's if it's more uh it could be a
digging kind of question like uh well uh
did anyone have any conflicts around
what you tried to do? Right? They're
sort of they're sort of fishing for
something. They're fishing in that space
and so you need to to respond to that
kind of prompt with a longer perhaps a
longer response or more a deeply thought
through response. So uh and in that case
you wouldn't want to just quickly move
on back to the back to the things that
you're you're you're talking about.
Obviously they're interested in
assessing some signal in that area. So,
every time you get a question, a
follow-up question or a regular
question, assess what is the person
trying to get? What's the question
behind the question? Which signal areas
is this interviewer assessing? And then
how can I give them a response that
provides them that signal area?
>> That is really insightful. And I I I'm
not sure if all of the audience noticed
that, but there was actually an
inflection in Austin's voice as he asked
that second question, which kind of
implied that there was some judgment
behind it. It's like, was that really or
are you sure? And whenever you sense
that judgment, that's usually an
indication that you know you need to
spend more time there because there's
probably some doubts on the other side.
So, u being able to distinguish between
those two modes of is this just a detail
or maybe an idle curiosity or is this
actually going to impact kind of my
assessment. Um that is tricky, but if
you're listening carefully, you can
usually hear it from your interview and
it can help you out a lot. I'd love to
get your impression on like what are the
common things that interviewers tend to
go into like deep dives additional
questions on questions like this where
do they tend to lead the conversation so
that way candidates can be ready you
know these are things that I'm likely to
want to go into
>> right so that brings up this meta point
that if you you are likely to tell talk
about some key projects so spending some
time in advance identifying what you're
going to say about each one of your key
projects maybe three or four projects
that you have is super valuable it's
going to make you feel confident. It's
going to make your your delivery really
smooth. That's going to enable you to
identify these pieces of the table of
contents. And you should prepare some
really common follow-up questions. And
those follow-up questions are things
like what would you do differently,
right? I think interviewer may not have
anything else to ask, but they can
always ask you for some reflection,
right? They might ask you what's the
hardest part, you know, the hardest
technical part or the hardest
organizational part or whatever the
project was about. Um, how did you
measure success? That's a really common
one. So, how did you know if you were
done or how did you know that uh the
project was s was working? Right. Um did
you encounter any conflicts? I think
that's really that's one's really common
>> conflict. We love conflict.
>> Yeah. Right. Right. And then you sort of
go back to what we talked about earlier
in structuring a conflict response. And
then um there's oftentimes
forward-looking questions like what
would you do next on this project? It's
like the project's done. You wrapped it
up with your little results and
learnings piece, but now what? You know
what what are the next steps? And
they're looking for some kind of
strategic ownership again of of of
whatever this is. the next step in the
technical project, the next step in the
product. Um, that's what they're looking
for. So, those are really common
questions that people ask.
>> Yeah. And you can, I guess, see the uh
recursiveness of a lot of these
questions that they beget other
questions that you can get into. So, um,
I think in some sense there is some
benefit to having connectedness amongst
your stories. So that way when uh your
interviewer goes into conflicts that are
related to that project you just spoke
about, you're able to give a more
customized version rather than having to
jump them out of context and give them a
conflict that's completely unrelated
where you have to go and tell them about
another project itself. Um so think
about some of these common questions and
how they might actually pertain to just
this question. Um because oftentimes
that's going to be the fastest path to
you delivering signal to your
interviewer. Sometimes interviewers want
you to tattle on yourself a little bit.
The these are like not my favorite style
of questions. I think uh in interviewer
trading sometimes people refer to these
as trapdo questions where you're
basically giving a candidate a chance to
hang themselves. And in some sense it's
not a good idea to ask an interviewer
because you know the easiest way to uh
to avoid the trap door is just to never
open it. Um, but these questions are
also somewhat useful in general because
they're getting at really important
characteristics of how do you grow? How
do you perceive failure? So, let me give
an example that we can dive into.
Austin, let's talk about tell me about a
project where you failed. Is there a
perfect response that a candidate should
give here? Like, you know, some uh fancy
response that I've never failed at a
project before because [laughter] my my
standards are too high or is it
something else? Right? So if you never
go even near the trapdo, then that's not
good. And I think that in this modern
cult tech culture, we expect failure. We
expect you if you haven't been if you're
not failing, you're not trying hard
enough, right? Something like that or
like we're this is the land of the pivot
here in Silicon Valley. So we expect you
to try something and then have to try
something else. And and uh you know uh
failing fast becomes this this mantra
that we that we that we tell ourselves
on the product side. So yeah, I really I
it is not good for you to say something
like, "Hey, I I I never fail. I've never
failed in my life." I think a that
either showcases that you have not been
taking enough risks or b you're lying to
me, right? And I think neither one of
those are great looks for you as a
candidate. But uh there there is a trap
here, right, like you talked about. And
so the candidate or the the interviewer
is looking for uh you know, growth and
self-awareness, right? So that your
ability to reflect on things that you
you you went through. And maybe it's
they're also assessing perseverance,
your ability to sort of get through
something that might have been
difficult. And of course something like
how you make decisions, judgment, and
then ownership and whether you push
through and and carry things over the
line for yourself. So I think that when
we're choosing these questions or
choosing these responses, um they want
to see failure, some real failure, but
not too much failure, right? Or maybe
not the wrong kind of failure. And so
there's some sort of Goldilock zone
where maybe there's some significant
failure that you have to learn from and
maybe do differently, but it's also
recoverable enough for you to show
resilience. Um, so maybe again some
examples might be, I don't know, helpful
for for folks who are out there. Maybe
you are designed something, right?
Designed some solution for a system and
it needed some refactoring once it got
to production under a certain amount of
load, right? U maybe you built a
solution for the team and you ended up
kind of doing the opposite like you
overengineered it and then it became
difficult to maintain. Um or if we were
to think about um other dimensions like
product dimensions maybe the feature
that you built uh was requested by users
but never ended up being used by them.
Something like that. Or maybe uh you
know you you took too long to build
something and the business no longer
wanted it or that had some kind of
effect on the market. There could be um
processoriented
um sort of failures, right? So maybe you
moved uh too fast and you created
quality issues. That's a classic one. So
the trade-off between speed and quality
or maybe you maybe you move too slow,
right? And then you missed some market
opportunity. Another classic one is is
uh planning planning failures. So you as
an engineer, you're often asked to
estimate how long things were going to
take. Maybe you underestimated it,
right? Maybe you didn't account for
dependencies. Maybe you missed some some
edge case. Of course, all this v varies
by level like we've talked about in the
past. You need to choose a failure which
is commensurate with with your level.
But I think the key part the part about
not falling through the trap door is
that you have some kind of hypothesis in
the beginning of the story about why
whatever choice you made was the right
choice. So for example, if your failure
is something like I didn't put in tests
and then we had some bugs in production,
then yes, you are assessing you're
having some self self-reflection that's
good. Um humility that's good. Maybe
growth mindset maybe that's good too.
But you're also showcasing poor judgment
like yes of course you didn't put any
test so you have these failures. But
instead if you say something like well
you know we we made this decisions
really quickly in the beginning because
you know I don't know time pressure from
the CEO or something like this and then
we ended up paying for it later. There's
some of hypothesis in the beginning
about about why uh you know why your
approach would have or could have worked
and uh then then in that case your
judgment is not being questioned. I
think you avoid sort of hanging yourself
u you know on the rope that's provided
to you by the interviewer.
>> Yeah. I I like the um kind of like could
a person at your level have anticipated
this beforehand is a really good lint to
take your story through and if as you're
telling it you're going oh it's pretty
obvious that this is not going to work
then your interviewer is thinking the
same thing. And so be really careful of
those. But Austin, I noted through the
examples that you were giving that often
times you were really zoning in on
places where there's trade-offs where
there's like not a right or wrong answer
that it's ultimately a a question of
where we put that threshold and where we
choose. Is that kind of the the key to
responses here?
>> Yeah, there could be different framings,
right? And that's kind of what you're
getting at is maybe there's some frames
that that you can that we can apply and
you can even back apply them, I think,
in some ways. So maybe you didn't apply
them at the time, but maybe they make
sense in in in retrospect. So let's
let's talk about how we could frame some
of these mistakes in the past. Maybe our
audience could also, you know, make some
comments about like what these different
framings are could could be. But the
ones that that that I that come to mind
when I think about them are speed over
quality. I talked about that one, right?
So sometimes you want high quality and
then maybe it takes too long. Sometimes
you want speed and maybe that's a
quality trade-off there. Um sometimes
there's uh the incorrect data. This is
like the the research problem I brought
up. This incorrect data. You have the
wrong data. You made a decision based on
data, but it was the wrong data. you
know, user said they wanted this, but
the revealed preference is different.
They did something different in reality
or maybe uh you know, we collected some
some initial responses from uh you know,
from our analytics, but that ended up
being wrong at scale. Something like
that. And then um sometimes it's just uh
well, we did this last time, like this
is what we this is what we've always
done [laughter] and maybe that's worked
in the past and that's fine. Sometimes
we the shortcut for decisions is that we
look to see what's what has been
successful in the past and uh we have
reason to believe that that'll be
repeated but then it it it didn't work
out this time. Um so those are all I
think helpful framings. I can you come
up with any other framings that might be
helpful?
>> Yeah I these are all good good
trade-offs. I'd love to actually see
what people drop into the comments. I
mean the other ones that I can think of
are really about kind of like what are
the priorities or values that the
organization have. um those are usually
for higher level leadership kind of uh
questions, but oftentimes there's not a
correct answer there. Um and you know,
usually two values are going to have
trade-offs in the limit and they make
for really interesting stories about why
you uh you know, are operating with one
set of values over another. It sounds
like there is also a delivery component
here. Like in as much as the trapoor is
about you kind of admitting to something
that your interviewer is obviously
thinking is not going to work out. What
would you propose as a like a structure
for people in responding to a question
like this? Do you have any like one two
threes that we can use?
>> Continuing to use a star or Carl format
still makes the sense makes sense for
this kinds of question. But um like we
talked about you the context section of
this situation task part needs to be
sure to include what the believable
hypothesis was that of why this could
work out. So make sure that you land
that really solidly in that in that
introduction. Right? And then um often
times since this is kind of like a uh
it's failure that you didn't anticipate
obviously if you anticipated the failure
you would have done something different.
So there must be some component in here
in the action part about how you
discovered what happened. And so that
needs to be where does it where does a
flip switch go from like oh I made a
mistake and then there needs to be some
active part of you handling the mistake
right so hopefully the story includes
you taking proactction proactive actions
to correct that mistake or at least fix
it next time whatever recover from
whatever the failure was and and like I
said do something different the next
time and I think those are the kinds of
things that that I'm that I'm I'm I'm
looking for um and um you know
especially that in that learning section
that forward-looking part where you've
been introspection about what you've
learned personally or maybe what the
company or the team has learned and then
you're able to apply those learnings and
then you tell me some really brief very
very brief story about how you did the
different differently next time. So if
it was like you underestimated in in one
project then you tell me like oh and the
next time I like got more advice from
senior engineers to understand what the
scope of the problem might be and get
some estimates and compared with some
previous previous timelines and then you
know my next timeline was better. So I
think that kind of following up these
mistakes and learnings questions, these
trapoor questions always with, you know,
what you did differently next time is a
really strong move.
>> The next category of question that I
have in mind is a little bit
interesting. Sometimes companies will
notice something like, oh, we're not
moving fast enough or we're not taking
enough risk. And so they will transform
those into questions that they ask for
new employees as a means to try to bias
the talent distribution so that they can
get people who epitomize those things
that they either don't do well or that
they really want to do well in the
future. So like one great example that
we see pretty commonly being asked are
give me an example of a calculated risk
that you've taken where speed was
critical. Um what would you what's your
take on this question and how would you
say that candidates ought to respond?
>> Yeah, we keep covering these questions
that embody these core Silicon Valley
beliefs or these these ways that tech
companies operate. This is the sort of
move fast and break things question,
right? How do I get business value
really fast and and taking the right
risks? And so, um yeah, of course, I'm
they're assessing your prioritization.
They're assessing your understanding of
these kinds of trade-offs. They're
assessing your understanding of the
overall business uh context and making
the right trade-off, right? Also, maybe
there's a pressure component to this
question. Perhaps there's a sort of
speed piece, right? Maybe you had to
make the decision under difficult
circumstances. And so, um if you are,
uh, you know, if you in this case, it's
kind of different than the previous one
about weaknesses where I want to see
that you were right, you know, to move
fast, right? If you if if the question
is uh you know if you took some risk and
you were wrong where speed was was not
critical or where the the speed did the
the bad something bad that that could
have been avoided then that's not a
great story to pick. So the risk needs
to be something that's calculated right
not not reckless to think about we we
decided to cut this corner or that
corner because XYZ and that was the
right choice. Um and often times I want
to see that the that you have mitigated
this risk in some way. So we have baked
in time for handling technical debt
later or you know we did additional
layers of testing or something like this
in order to ensure that the that what I
built was correct um or that you had
some sort of phase roll out whatever
whatever the mitigation strategies are
for for moving fast. I want to see those
in the you know in the in the story
outcome.
>> What are some example risks that you
hear from candidates that you would say
are gold standard or or you know maybe
some of the better uh stories that
you've heard? Yeah, I mean of course it
varies by level, right? Um and so you
want to choose one that's appropriate to
your level like we've been talking
about. Maybe maybe ideally you have some
really great suite of automated tests,
but perhaps you um don't have time to
build that or um whatever don't have the
resources and so you instead relied on
some like passive manual testing. Maybe
that's okay, right? Or maybe uh you know
you decided to launch um some this would
be more of like a junior person. I guess
that's the idea here. and that maybe you
uh decided to um you know build
something simpler um than you originally
intended or what the product maybe
product manager might want to to have
and you took the risk that the adoption
would be poor because they didn't have
all the features right um I think
somebody who's uh more senior you know
they might their their trade-off might
be about architecture or something that
may last longer right so maybe maybe you
know that this architecture is not going
to scale to uh you know web scale or
whatever the the destination is that you
want to get to, but for your small set
of test users for the first few months,
you're fine with it and you just want to
get it out there. So, you made some sort
of um you acquired some technical debt
that you're going to pay down later. And
then maybe for more senior folks, uh
there's probably some risks around
choosing the right technology. Maybe
you're choosing maybe you chose legacy
technology even though you because you
knew you needed it to to work in a high
quality way and be able to build it fast
even if you knew that that would cause
limitations later in terms of what the
the product could achieve but you
decided to to bias that or maybe do the
o opposite. So maybe you chose some kind
of emerging technology to capture uh the
user market in some innovative way even
though if you knew that maybe it doesn't
work all you know as well or as smoothly
or the developer experience is not as
great as the more mature process right
um so I think those are the kinds of
risks that I see people people taking
got it for people who are moving between
kind of like a category of companies
like big tech to startups or startups to
big tech there's oftentimes a bunch of
cultural baggage that comes. So like if
I'm in big tech, everything that I'm
doing seems like it's risk averse to
someone who's working in a startup.
Whereas in a startup, everything I do
seems reckless to someone who's working
in big tech. What's the appropriate way
to like contextualize this so that
candidates can give the right impression
to their interviewer uh with respect to
the stories they have?
>> Yeah, this is a great question because
this is this is frequently what you need
to do. You use this word contextualize.
This is frequently what you need to do
on on any many stories if you're going
from sort of one stage of company to to
another stage of company. It's not
always about exactly what you did. It's
more about the thinking why you did that
thing. So that's that's the repeatable
part. The repeatable part is your
thought process, your ability to gather
data and make decisions based on on the
business context, the technical
decisions, the product needs, the the
whatever data you acquired through
tests. So those are the that that kind
of um those those are what contextualize
the the work for us and trying to figure
out like whether or not you made the
right call. So that's how I would I
would um you know mitigate this this
risk of making telling the story that
might not fit with the the the culture
of the of the company you're trying to
to um to apply to is to add a healthy
layer of why you made those choices and
what your thinking was at these
different phases.
I like the emphasis on the the thought
process because that in some sense is
what interviewers are trying to unpack.
So this is great. I'd love to just go
into a question that's more common in
staff and senior staff loops. Tell me
about the hardest feedback that you've
ever had to deliver. At these levels,
companies are expecting that you're not
just receiving feedback that you're
giving it. They really expect their
senior most IC's to in some sense be
exemplars for the rest of the
organization. And there's obviously a
few angles to this question. It's like
what constitutes hard or difficult
feedback for you? What kind of feedback
have you actually had to deliver in your
experience and then how did you go about
executing it? Um I'd love to understand
from your side you know what is this
question uh trying to get at and then
you know what are the key things that
candidates should be thinking through in
terms of how they can organize their own
stories.
>> Yeah. providing feedback to others,
right? Helping other people grow, not
just not just yourself and and your own
responsibilities, but like what are the
the whether it's your people that report
to you or maybe it's like peers, right?
The people who are on other teams, like
how are you making these people grow?
And I think that that there that brings
in a lot of variation. So sometimes
there's a power dynamic that you have
where you're telling some story about
your reports and sometimes you are
influencing without any kind of formal
power, right? And so those are very sort
of different stories I get at different
signals. Um, but I would think that
companies are, like you said, trying to
assess what you think is hard. Maybe the
hard what you think is hard reveals
something about your scope, about your
maturity. Also, if it's hard, then that
means that you probably need to navigate
some kind of emotionally charged
conversation. And that's really
important. Um, and then they're probably
also assessing whether you can, like my
old manager used to say, like land the
plane. you know, how can you land this
feedback in a way that that makes the
the person willing to change and can you
drive change in someone else, especially
if you don't have power over them. So,
that's a big thing that they're going to
be assessing in in a question like um
like this one. So, yeah, you talked
about this one being more for senior
leaders or or leaders of some kind.
There could be interesting stories that
someone could come up with for this one.
So maybe for someone who is uh you know
newer on the leadership side, it could
be telling someone that their task
performance is not what's expected of
them, right? That could be a hard
conversation, right? Or maybe asking
somebody to redo something. Maybe
there's giving feedback to your manager.
Like that could be something that could
be challenging or difficult to do u as
if you're early in the in the you know
in your in your career. Um and maybe
anything that has to do with you know
performance management. We kind of
touched on that, right? Or maybe
someone's not going to get promoted.
that could be an examples of of things
that early career folks could could find
difficult. Um, so if you're more senior,
I think that you need to choose
something that might be a little bit
more complex than that. So maybe if
you're a level seven or or like senior
manager or director, then um I find I
find things difficult to deliver things
like hey um there's some kind of
behavior happening on your team maybe
off the team that is suboptimal. You
know, maybe it doesn't fit with some
kind of like expectation. And I can't
point to say like this expectation is is
is not being met. But it's uh the way
that you know the way that you look at
people in meetings or something like
[laughter] that, right? Something's
about culture, right? It's not
measurable outcome. I can't say like
yes, you deliver the code on time or you
did not, but it's something about the
way that you're working. And often times
at this this kind of level, these are
the things that start to matter, right?
Is these these more softer skills. Um
maybe it's it's letting go somebody who
is trying hard. So I think this this
kind of example of somebody that's
struggling but is not not putting in the
effort. I think that's an easier
conversation than someone who, wow, this
person's really given it everything they
have and it's just not working for them.
Um, then then this is where the power
parts come in, right? So, it's like one
thing to have a hard conversation with
someone that reports to you, that's a
little easier for an experienced leader.
But when you're having a conversation
with someone who you don't have any
reporting relationship with, then now
you're really testing the quality of
your u your personal relationship, the
quality of your ability to land that
feedback. uh or like you're maybe you're
providing feedback, you know, way up the
chain like skip level, skip skip level,
those sorts of things. Uh can you drive
change at that level? Um so these are
these are like the the stakes of course
increase as as the level expectations
increase.
>> Well Austin, this has been a lot of fun
and and super informative and I hope
that we partly succeeded helping you all
in the audience understand a little bit
about how interviewers are looking at
your responses to these common
questions. If you'd like to learn more
about other common questions, [music]
feel free to check out our community
questions section on the Hello Interview
website. I'll include a link in the
description. And if you haven't already,
go and check out Austin Substack. He has
a lot of great writing about the thought
process of interviewers and then also
those steps that you'll have uh to
prepare your stories and get ready to
crush your interviews. I think he uh has
definitely put more thought uh around
this than basically anyone in the world.
It's a phenomenal resource for all
[music] things behavioral. So, I uh wish
you all the best and hope that everyone
has a good one. Thanks again, Austin.
Thank you. Great to be here.